Systems connected to networks become more susceptible to attacks which exploit bugs and vulnerabilities.  

As any network activity can leave traces, hackers try to mask the unusual pattern to avoid detection by launching attacks from zombie systems. 

Zombie systems are compromised devices that carry out attacks onto other systems by denial of services(DOS) attacks and spam relays. All this is done without the owners knowledge. 

Hackers are capable of exploiting insignificant machines for these attacks. Due to the increase in connectivity in the world these days, attacks have become more common. 

## Network Attacks

Hackers can launch various network attacks.
- They can passively intercept network traffic to gather information. This is called <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">sniffing</mark>.  
- They can impersonate parties in transaction, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">spoofing</mark>.
- They can become a <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">man-in-middle</mark> by intercepting and modifying transactions between two parties.

#### Denial Of Service 
DoS attacks aim to disrupt system usage. It aims to render the system unresponsive by causing attack that results in partial or complete failure of the system. 

These attacks can be of two types
- Attack to consume resources
- Attack to disrupt network connectivity. 

These attacks can go on for days as they are conducted by multiple zombie systems. These types of attacks where multiple systems are attacking one site are called Distributed Denial of Services DDoS.

DDoS attacks are hard to detect as various factors can influence an influx to a site's traffic like an advertising campaign.

Attackers can take advantage of algorithms set up by developers like an algo to lock an account for 48hrs after 10 login attempts. 


#### Port Scanning

Its a recon technique used by hackers to identify vulnerabilities in a target system by checking range of network ports on a system to see if they are open, closed or filtered. This gives them the information of the OS, services and the applications running on the target.
They later use this along with the known vulnerabilities to attack.

Tools are available for automating this, many opensource tools like Nmap give access to this field. 

