**Defense in depth** says that one security measure is inadequate. A layered approach is needed. 

**Security policy** is the documentation of what is being secured, what practices are permitted or prohibited and gives a roadmap of implementing security measures. This is necessary as it allows users to understand their roles in maintaining security.

## Vulnerability assessment
Its the process of finding weakness in the system which could be exploited by hackers. Risk assessment is done to find out their potential impact and chance of happening. 

**Penetration testing** is done to simulate such attacks in order to identify vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities could be weak passwords, unauthorized software, improper access controls and other vulnerabilities. Automation tools are used for this.

Vulnerability scans help to identify open ports, services and vulnerabilities in them. These allow admins to assess the issues and mitigates the risks and secure the system.

Tools used by attackers are often used by security pros to prevent attacks. 

Multiple Layers of security used by organizations include:
- Firewall
- Encryption
- Regular vulnerability assessments
- Intrusion detection systems.


## Intrusion Prevention 

It involves detecting and responding to attempted or successful intrusions. Range of techniques are applied to identify unauthorized process. 

Time of detection is one of the key factors. 
- Real Time Detection: Immediate response to ongoing attacks. 
- Post Factum Detection: Focuses on analyzing logs and data after an incident to determine if an intrusion has occurred. 

### Detection Approaches
Detection techniques involve assessment of network packets, user-shell commands, system calls etc. 
Most of the intrusion detection systems are based on these two types:

#### Signature Based Detection
They are extremely useful for detecting the patterns or signatures known attacks. Like a network packet could be scanned for strings that attempt to reach sensitive files. 

#### Anomaly Detection
It focuses on abnormal behavior within the system. It creates a baseline for normal activity and raises alerts whenever deviation occurs from the baseline. Like monitoring system calls, network traffic, user  behavior. This kind of detection system can be useful for Zero Day Attacks.


### Intrusion Prevention System
They are self modifying firewalls which block traffic when an intrusion is detected. Based on the desired level of protection we can choose between signature or anomaly based detection. 

Most IPS rely on signature based since crafting a precise definition of 'Intrusion' is difficult as attacks keep evolving so do the definitions.

Anomaly detection on benchmarking normal system behavior to find deviations. If the system is compromised during the benchmarking activity then the intrusive activity might become a part of the baseline. Even then the baseline must include various cases of normal behavior to avoid false positives and false negatives. 

#### Trade offs between approaches
Signature based systems are effective for known attack patterns but may miss out on new attacks. Anomaly detection can catch zero day attacks but can raise false alarms if normal behavior is incorrectly defined. A combination of these methods would be a ideal approach. 


## Virus Protection

It is a critical security concern to protect system from viruses. Antiviruses are used for this. 

Antivirus mainly
- Searches for known pattern in programs known to be part of viruses.
- If pattern is found then program removes the viral instruction and disinfects the program.  
Antiviruses maintain catalog of thousands of virus pattern for detection.

Viruses try to evade antivirus by changing their signatures during infection. But in response antivirus tries to look for families of pattern rather than a single pattern. 

Antiviruses use detection algorithms, scan by decompressing compressed/ armored viruses and analyze behavioral anomalies.

Safe computing practices can help us in avoiding viruses.
- Buying software from reputable vendors.
- Avoiding pirate software.
- Using alternative file formats(like rich text format to avoid macros). 
- Checking email senders address and content before clicking on any link. 

We can benchmark normal behavior by computing secure message digest for each program on a clean machine. The system then periodically checks the program with the original bench to detect anomalies.


### Auditing, Accounting and Logging
**Auditing** involves recording system activities, including system call executions, for later analysis. **Accounting** can detect performance changes that might indicate security breaches. By examining **logs**, anomalies can be spotted, leading to early intrusion detection.


#### Firewall 
Firewall are essential for securely connection trusted systems to untrusted networks. It acts like a barrier between the network and the system. 
Firewalls segregate a network into secured, semi-secured and unsecured system. 
This allows firewall to prevent unauthorized access and also certain protocols. 

Even thought firewalls can do all that it is vulnerable to attacks that tunnel through allowed connections. DDoS attacks affect systems protected by firewalls. Spoofing is also possible despite having a firewall. 

Some new kinds of firewall:

- **Personal Firewall:** A personal firewall is a software layer that safeguards a specific device, like a personal computer, by controlling its network communication and blocking unauthorized access.
    
- **Application Firewall:** An application firewall watches communication between applications and networks, understanding their protocols. It monitors and controls traffic at an application level, detecting and stopping malicious activities.
    
- **System-Call Firewall:** A system-call firewall regulates system calls made by applications. It restricts the capabilities of processes by managing their access to certain system functions, enhancing security.


## Other Stuff

Preventing code injection by Address Space Layout Randomization can make exploitation much difficult but not impossible. Many OSes include this. 
Linux based systems tend to mount the system partition as read only and data partition as read-write. This boosts system integrity as system files cant be tampered with. 