## Goals of protection
Protection mainly aims to prevent intentional access violation, ensures processes adhere to policies, attempts to enforce this by resource  restriction.
Improves reliability by catching interface errors and distinguishes authorized from unauthorized. 
As information is shared, the need of protection has grown to become more necessary. 


## Principles Of Protection

### Principle of Least Privilege
Advocates granting users, programs and systems the minimum necessary privileges to perform their tasks. Giving a lot of privileges can be dangerous. 
UNIX OS doesn't allow its users to run as root(admin) to prevent accidental misuses of root privileges.

### Compartmentalization
Involves protection of individual components of a system with specific access permissions. If one component is compromised the impact can be contained and prevent the attacker from compromising the entire system. 
This is like isolation of certain resources. Virtualization and Demilitarized Zones are its examples. 

### Access Restriction and Audit Trails
Access restrictions are used to control who can access certain resources, ensuring that only authorized entities interact with them. Additionally, 
An audit trail provides a record of system interactions, which can be valuable for identifying potential security breaches, analyzing attacks, and assessing the extent of damage caused by an intrusion.



## Protection Rings

This is privilege separation which requires Hardware support allows distinct execution levels which is represented as protection rings. With the inner rings having greater privileges. 

During boot system boots to the innermost rings(Highest privilege) where it initializes everything. 
It is possible to go from a lower privilege to higher one through special instructions like syscall(switches from user to kernel mode). Interrupts also can lead to higher privilege ring.  

Some known rings(Intel):
- Ring 3 = User mode
- Ring 0 = Kernel mode
- Ring -1 = Hypervisors and VMs.

### Advantages
- Isolation of sensitive resources even in the case of a compromised kernel. 
- Controlled transition between layers enhances integrity. 
- Greater virtualization support. 


## Domain of Protection

There are two principles to know:
- Need To Know: Limiting the amount of resources accessed by a process.
- Least Privilege: Giving only the minimum amount of privilege necessary for a process to conduct its operations.

### Domain Structure

A process may operate within a protection domain. Such domains specifies the resources that a process may access. 

A domain contains objects, they are hardware or software entities. Access rights(<object-name, rights-set>) define the operations that can be performed on objects. 

Multiple domains can share access rights like D1 & D2 can share the right (<03>,\<print>) 

Domains can be static and dynamic.
- Static Domains have fixed set of resources during the process's life-time. 
- Dynamic Domains allow the process to switch between sets of resources. This process is called domain switching. 

### Realizing Domains
- Each **USER** may be a domain. Set of objects accessed by the user can be based on the role of the user. When a user logs of and another user comes, domain is switched to that of the new user.
- Each **Process** may be a domain. Set of objects can be based on the identity of the process. Switching can occur when one process sends a message to another process then waits for a response.
- Each **Procedure** may be a domain. Set of objects that can be accessed are dependent on the local variable within the procedure. Domain switching occurs when a procedure call is made. 


## Role Based Access Control

Access control can be used on files withing a directory by setting its owner, group or a list of users with access control info.

We can advance this protection via RBAC. RBAC incorporates principle of least privilege(Assigns the bare minimum privileges needed by the process). 

Roles are predefined set of privileges that are relevant to specific tasks, functions and responsibilities. Users can temporarily adopt roles by activating them via role-specific passwords. This allows them to do tasks that require permissions beyond their normal level. 

Implementation of privileges decreases security risk associated with superusers and setuid programs. 


## Mandatory Access Control

Traditionally discretionary access control (DAC) were used, they were based on user identities and groups. But these fell weak as time passed as owner had ability to change permissions and the unlimited root access it granted exposed the system to a lot of risks.

MAC were more robust than DAC's as they enforced rules that everyone including the root users must follow. These rules will not change unless allowed by the rules or the system restarts. Even if the user has the highest privileges, the user cannot do anything and everything at will. 

MAC uses labels. These are like categories for files and users. Ex: Labels can be `top secret`, `secret`, `public`, here secret cannot access top secret but can access public. 
A root user might be granted the read and write access to the secret label but only read access to top secret.

Modern day OS implement MAC and DAC together. 