Max CPU utilization is obtained by multiprogramming. 
Scheduling involves determining the order and allocation of resources like CPU to processes. 
By efficiently scheduling OS optimizes the utilization of computer resources including the CPU. 


#### Process Execution

Cycle starts with CPU burst then a I/O burst and an CPU burst and so on till the process terminates. 

Length of CPU burst varies, it is a distribution of length(many small burst followed by long) that matters for scheduling algorithm.


## Preemptive and Non Preemptive Scheduling

Scheduling must take place according to these decisions: 
1. The process switches from running state to waiting.
2. The process switches from running state to ready.
3. The process switches from waiting state to ready.
4. The process terminates. 

Choice in terms of scheduling exists for 2 and 3.

**Non-Preemptive Scheduling**: Here, once a process is allocated to the CPU, it continues to run till the task is completed or till it is terminated. 

**Preemptive Scheduling**: Here the operating system can 'preempt' the process and allocate CPU to another process. This method allows for a better control over process execution and resource allocation. 

Preempt means a temporary interruption in the execution of a certain process. Once CPU is available again, the preempted process resumes from where it is left off. 



### Preemptive Scheduling and Race Conditions: 

Race condition is when multiple processes/ threads try to access/ modify shared data at the same time. This leads to unpredictable outcomes. 
Knowing the nature of preemptive scheduling, race conditions can occur. 

If there are 2 processes, if the first process is running and it gets preempted so the second can run, the second has a high chance of reading data which is in inconsistent state. 



### Dispatcher
Its a module that gives control to the CPU to the process selected by the CPU scheduler. This involves:
- Switching Context
- Switching to user mode
- Jumping to proper location in the user program to restart program.

Dispatch Latency is the time it takes for dispatcher to stop one process and start another running. 



## Scheduling

### Criteria

- CPU Utilization: 
- Throughput
- Turnaround Time
- Waiting Time
- Response Time

### Optimization Criteria

- Max CPU Utilization
- Max Throughput
- Min Turnaround Time
- Min Waiting Time
- Min Response Time


### CPU Scheduling Algorithms:

Turn Around Time: Total time interval between the time of process submission and time of it's completion. 

Completion Time: Exact Time when a process gets finished

Arrival Time: Time of arrival of a process before the state of execution. 

Waiting Time: Total time spent by process in a ready queue before it reaches the CPU. 

Burst Time: Total Time require by process for its execution. 




### Algorithms

#### First Come First Serve
- Convoy Effect is observed, i.e. short process behind long process. 
its a non preemptive algorithm. 


#### Shortest Job First
It is a non preemptive algorithm. Uses lengths to schedule the process with shortest time. Its preemptive version is called, shortest remaining time first.


### Round Robin Scheduling
Each process gets a limited time to run. (Time quantum q). After this time has elapsed, process is preempted and added to the end of ready queue. 

##### Advantage Round Robin
- Round robin is independent of convoy effect.
- Every process gets fair allocation of CPU.
- It becomes easy to estimate the worst cast response time of the process. 
- Handles all the processes without priority. 
- Round robin is easy to implement. 

##### Disadvantage Of Round Robin
- Avg. waiting time is higher. 
- Depends upon the length of time slice. 
- If time quantum is more then response time is more. If less then overhead is more.


### Priority Scheduling
Priority number is associated with each process. 
CPU is allocated to the process with the highest priority. 
It is of two types:
- Preemptive
- Non-Preemptive

Problem with Priority Scheduling
- Low priority processes may never execute.
Solution:
- As time progresses, the priority of the process increases.


### Multilevel Queue

We have separate queue for each priority in priority scheduling. 