
## Important Definitions

- **Database** - A collection of related data.
	- Data is the facts that can be recorded
- **DBMS** - Programs that enable users to create and maintain database.
	- Has features that enable users to define, construct, manipulate and share databases among users and applications.
- **Database System** - DBMS with Database is called DS.

### Features of DBMS: 
1) Defining database: Defining constrains, structures and data types.
2) Construct/load the database on a secondary storage medium.
3) Manipulation of database:
	- Insertions
	- Deletions
	- Modifications
4) Concurrent processing and sharing with users
5) Metadata/database definition/ describe database  
6) Prevention of unauthorized access.


### Characteristics of Database:

#### Self-describing nature
DBMS catalog stores description of database. aka. Meta-data. Allows DMBS software with different databases.

#### Insulation between programs and data: 
1) **Program-Data** independence:
	Allows changing data storage structures and operations without having to change DBMS access programs
2) **Program-Operation** Independence: 
	Operations can be invoked through their names and parameters without having to know the underlying processes carried out to perform the operation
3) Data Abstraction:
	It is the characteristic that allows program-data and program-operation independence.
	Data Model is used to hide the storage details and show a conceptual view of the database.

#### Support for data & multiuser transaction processing:
Allowing users to parallelly retrieve and update the database, without errors. i.e. All transactions are correctly executed or completely aborted.


## Database Users

### Actors in the scene

1) **Administrators**
	Authorizing access, coordinating, monitoring, acquiring software and hardware resources for the database. For efficiency of operations. 
2) **Designers**
	Responsible for design, structure, constraints and functions for the database. Must know the need of the end-users.
3) **End-Users**
	People who query the database for different purposes.
	1) Casual
		Access database occasionally
	2) Naïve/Parametric
		They use well defined functions to carry out repetitive transactions. Ex: bank clerks.
	3) Sophisticated
		Those who know the DBMS facilities well. ex: engineers, scientists
	4) Stand-alone
		Those who maintain personal databases using ready to use packaged applications
		
4) System Analysts and Application Programmers(**Software Engineers**)
	System analysts determine requirements of end users and develop specifications for requirements.
	Application programmers implements these specifications as programs.

### Workers Behind The Scene

1) DBMS System designers and implementers 
2) Tool devs.
3) Operators and maintenance personnel.

## Advantages of Database Approach

- Restricting unauthorized access to data.
- Providing persistent storage for program objects. 
- Providing storage structures for efficient query processing. 
- Controlling data redundancy.
- Providing backup and recovery services.
- Providing different interfaces for different users.
- Representing complex relationships among data.
- Enforcing integrity constraints(data getting stored in database follows certain rules) on database. 
- Database structure can evolve as new requirements are defined.
- Allows to display up to date information(ex: airlines and railway bookings).


>Links: 
	[[1.2 More about DBMS ]]  (Next Up)