## DBMS Languages

When there is a lack of separation of levels (internal, conceptual and external) we use **DDL or Data Definition Language** to define internal and conceptual schemas. 

When a clear separation is maintained between conceptual and internal levels, the DDL is used to specify conceptual schemas and **SDL or Storage Definition Language** is used to specify internal schema. 
**VDL or View Definition Language** is used to specify user views and their mappings to the conceptual Schema.

- In most cases DDL is enough to define conceptual and external schema. 

**DML or Data Manipulation Language** carries a set of operations that allow data manipulation operations once the database schema is compiled and populated. 
- Retrieval
- Deletion
- Insertion
- Modification


Types of DML

|High Level|Low Level|
|--------|------|
|AKA Non Procedural DML(Specify what data they want without telling how they want it.)|AKA Procedural DML(Telling what data is needed with steps to get it)|
|Used to specify complex database operations in a concise manner| Embedded in a general Programming Language.|
|Also Called Set at a time DML(Many records can be recovered at a time)|Also Called record at a time DML|
|Example: SQL|Example: IDK|


## DBMS Interfaces

- **Menu Based Interfaces**: 
	List of options (menus). Step by step picking options from a menu that is displayed by the system. 
- **Form Based Interface**:
	For naïve users. Displays a form to inset data which gets stored in the database.
- **Graphical User Interface**:
	Displays schema in diagrammatical form. 
	Utilizes menus and forms. Pointing device to choose parts of diagram.
- **Natural Language Interfaces**:
	Using own set of schema similar to DB conceptual schema and set of important words. Generates high level query if request is properly interpreted. 
- **Speech Input/Output**:
	Speech input is detected using a library of words & then gets processed.
- **Interfaces for Parametric Users**:
	Contains small set of operations as those are what parametric users perform mostly. Ex. transaction routine for back teller.
- **Interfaces for DB Admins**:
	To execute privileged commands for DBA staff. Like auth, schema changes, reorganization etc.

> Link
	[[1.5 Entity and Relationship ]]