Relational model represents data as a collection of tables. A table in this context is called **Relation**.
- Each row in a table is called **Tuple**
- Column attributes is known as **Attributes**

**Domain**: A set of atomic values allowed for an attribute. Also describes what kind of data is allowed, int, positive int, str, etc.
Ex: 
- Emp_age: is a positive integer that ranges between values 20-69
- Academic_dept_code: is a string of 2 characters which are the most significant --characters of a department name. 

**Relation Schema**: Describes relation. Made of a relation name, R and a list of attributes A1, A2, A3 ..... An. 
- The number of attributes n is the degree of **relation** (not relation**ship**)
Ex : Student (Name, Roll No, Address, Phone, Grade) of degree 5

**Cardinality**: Total number of tuples present in the relation. 


## Characteristics of Relation

- Ordering of Tuples withing a relation
	A relation is a set of tuples. ex: A={1,2,3,4}
	- Tuples in a relation need not have any particular order.
	- Interchanging tuples i.e. (ssn, name, age){1,alpha,16}{2,beta,17}{3,gamma,18}
		Interchanging alpha with beta will not change the meaning of the table.

- Ordering values within a Tuple
	**IS NECESSARY when using the ordinary definition** (comon)  of tuple i.e. n-tuple is an ordered list of n values, so ordering of values in a tuple is important.
	i.e first value should be ssn, second must be name and third should be age. 
	
	If we use alternative definition of relation i.e. Tuple is a set of (attribute, value), the order of attributes will not matter. i.e. t = {(ssn,1), (name,alpha), (age,16)} is same as {(ssn,1), (age,16), (name,alpha)}

- Values and NULLs in a tuple
	Each value in a tuple is an atomic values. It's therefore called flat relational model. Instead of address being City, State, Pincode. We can have separate columns for City, state and Pincode.
	
	Null values are values that are unknown of not available. Ex: If a field called Landline_No. exists and a person doesn't have a landline_no we can put a NULL to signify the same. 

  - Interpretation of a Relation: 
	It can be interpreted as a declaration or a type of assertion. Some relations may represent fact about entities and other may represent fact about relationship. 
	
	For example: Student(roll no, name, age, phone) it asserts the fact that there is a STUDENT with name ..., roll no. .... who is age years old and has the phone no. .... .


### Transaction 

In relational database a transaction in a program that performs database operations such as reading and modifying data. It ensures database remains valid and consistent by adhering to constraints. A transaction would involve multiple retrieval and updation operations. 

Ex: A transaction for a bank withdrawal would read the account record, verify the available balance, and update the record by deducting the withdrawal amount.



>Links
[[1.6.1 Relational Model Constraints]] (Next Up)
[[1.6.2 Operations & Violations]]
