
## Constraints on Databases

- **Inherent model-based/ Implicit Constraints**: Constraints that are inherent in the data model. Ex: Duplicate tuples are not allowed in a relation. 

- **Schema Based Constraints/ Explicit Constraints**: Defined directly in the schemas of the data model. Ex: Age of employee must be between 20 to 69

- **Application based**: Must be expressed and enforced by the application programs as they cant be directly expressed in the schema diagram. 

- **Data Dependencies**: These include functional dependencies/ multivalued dependencies which are mainly used for testing goodness and for normalization of RDB.



## Schema Based Constraints 

### Domain Constraints

Within each tuple, value of each attribute must be atomic.
It performs data check. Ex: Values of attribute Age(int). If We try to insert a character, it Violates Domain Constraints.  

|<u>R.No</u>|Name|Age||Violation| 
|--|--|--|-----|-----|
|1|Alpha|16|||
|2|Beta|17|||
|3|Gamma|18|||
|4|Delta|A|| <----- Violation|
>Student

### Key Constraints 

Attribute that can uniquely identify each tuple is called a key. 
In the above table the key is R.no. Indicated By underline %% Markdown limits underlines %%

**Superkey** - A Superkey is a set of attributes that uniquely identify a tuple within a relationship. Ex - A student can be identified by a set of attributes like of R.no, phone.no, email this is a superkey. 

Candidate key is a minimal superkey(least key or set of keys that can identify a tuple uniquely.) 

Primary is a chosen set of candidate key. Whose values acts as a representative of a tuple.

$$t_1[SK]\neq t_2[SK]$$

- Any combination with Superkey will be a Superkey. 

Key satisfies two constraints: 
1) Two tuples cannot have identical values for all attributes. 
2) Key has to a minimal superkey. i.e. Roll No. 


### Constraints on NULL Values

Constraint specifies wether NULL values are permitted or not(NOT NULL). If specified, the value of that attribute cannot be NULL.


### Entity Relationship Constraints

Constraint specifies that no Primary Key Value can be NULL.


### Referential Integrity Constraints

- It is specified between 2 relations. 
- States that a tuple in one relation that refers to another relation must refer to an existing tuple in that relation. 

|<u>SID</u>|SNAME|DNO|
|--|--|--|
|1001|Alicia|3|
|1002|Katherine|1|
>Student

|<u>DNO</u>|DNAME|
|---|---|
|1|CS|
|2|ECE|
|3|AI|
>Department

DNO of student(CHILD) refers to DNO of department(PARENT). DNO of child must refer an existing tuple in DNO of parent.  


**Foreign Key** is the attribute of one relation that refers to the Primary Key of another relation. 
It must satisfy the following conditions:
- Must be of same domain of the attribute it refers to. 
- Value of FK in a tuple either occurs as a value of primary key i.e.,
	$t_1[FK] = t_2[PK]$ or is NULL. Ex: if 4 doesn't exist in Department then it must not exist as a foreign key in DNO of student.
	- Student is the **Referencing relation** and Department is the **Referenced relation**.

>Link
	 [[1.6.2 Operations & Violations]]

