
## Update Operations

### Insert Operation

Its used to add a new tuple into a relation. 

|<u>EmpID</u>|Name|Age|Phone|Dno|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|1330|Awoman|29|123456789|2|
|1331|Aman|26|132547698|1|
>Employee 

|<u>Dno</u>|Dname|Loc|
|--|---|---|
|1|Human Resources|Bangalore|
|2|Finance|Mangalore|
>Department

Can Violate ANY 4 Constraints:
- **Domain Violation** : 
	If given attribute value doesn't appear in the corresponding domain. Ex: Domain of Dno is an int. If char appears then violation occurs. To avoid violation, this insertion is rejected. 

 - **Key Violation**:
	 If we `insert <1331, 'Acreature', 30, 987654321, 2> into EMPLOYEE` then we violate key constraint as Primary Key Val. 1331 already exists. To avoid violation to change change the value of EmpID of new tuple. 

- **Entity Integrity Violation**: 
	If we `insert <NULL, 'Acreature', 30, 987654321, 2> into EMPLOYEE` we violate entity integrity constraint as PK cannot be NULL. DBMS will ask user to give value for EmpId. 

- **Referential Integrity Violation**:
	we `insert <1332, 'Acreature', 30, 987654321, 5> into EMPLOYEE` we violate Referential Integrity Constraints. DBMS can ask user to set value of Dno to something that exists, or to NULL or to add value `5` into Department. 



### Delete Operation

|<u>EmpID</u>|Name|Age|Phone|
|--|--|--|--|
|1330|Awoman|29|123456789|
|1331|Aman|26|132547698|
>Employee 

|<u>Pno</u>|ProjectName|Dno|
|--|---|---|
|1|Global Payment|2|
|2|Discover|1|
>Project

|<u>EmpID</u>|<u>Pno</u>|Hours|
|--|--|--|
|1331|1|40|
|1331|2|56|
|1330|1|53|
>Works_On


Can Violate 1 Constraint:
- **Referential Integrity Violation**:
	If we `delete the EMPLOYEE with EmpID = '1331'` we violate Referential Integrity Constraints. DBMS can reject the deletion. We can cascade (delete the tuples) those that refer EmpID='1331'.
	 

`Delete the WORKS_ON tuple with Emp_Id = '1331' and PNo = 1` (Acceptable)

### Update/Modify

|<u>EmpID</u>|Name|Age|Phone|
|--|--|--|--|
|1330|Awoman|29|123456789|
|1331|Aman|26|132547698|
>Employee 

|<u>Pno</u>|ProjectName|Dno|
|--|---|---|
|1|Global Payment|2|
|2|Discover|1|
>Project

|<u>EmpID</u>|<u>Pno</u>|Hours|
|--|--|--|
|1331|1|40|
|1331|2|56|
|1330|1|53|
>Works_On

|<u>Dno</u>|Dname|Loc|
|--|---|---|
|1|Human Resources|Bangalore|
|2|Finance|Mangalore|
>Department

Can Violate 4 Constraints :
- **Referential Integrity Violation**:
	`Update the Dno. of the EMPLOYEE tuple with EmpId = '1330' to 7` As Dno = 7 doesn't exist in Department. DBMS can reject the updation or add a new tuple in the department with Dno=7, or DBMS can ask user to change the value. 

- **Key Constraint Violation**: 
	`Update the EmpId of the EMPLOYEE tuple with EmpID='1330' to '1331'`. This violates Key constraints(EmpID=1331 already exists) as well as Referential Integrity Constraints(Because there is a tuple that references to EmpID).

- **Domain Constraint** 
	`Update the Age of EMPLOYEE tuple with EmpID='1330' to '10'`
	(If employee age is specified to be between 20-70 and is an INT)
	Then we violate the domain constraint that can be enforced by specifying a range or the data type of the attribute. The DB will reject this. We can fix this by passing a permissible value like 30.

- **Entity Integrity Constraint:**
	`Update the EmpID of EMPLOYEE with EmpID='1330' to NULL`.
	This will violate entity integrity constraint. As Primary keys cant accept null values. To resolve this we use some other unique value of the same domain to update the EmpID.



