The main purpose of joining is to simplify queries. Allows to specify table resulting from join operation in the FROM clause.

<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">If joining attributes have same name we can use `JOIN` or `NATURAL JOIN`. The system auto creates an EQUIJOIN condition when the attribute names get matched. </mark>Like between DEPARTMENT and EMPLOYEE the system may detect `dno` to be similar and create the condition `emp.dno = dept.dno`. This ensures that the tuples with matching department numbers are included. 

Renaming the attributes to match with the other table can be done if NATURAL JOIN is what we wanna use. 

```sql 
SELECT Fname , Lname , Address 
FROM ( EMPLOYEE NATURAL JOIN ( DEPARTMENT AS DEPT ( Dname , Dno , Mssn , Msdate ))) 
WHERE Dname =‘Research’;
```

Default is `INNER JOIN` where if matching tuple exists only then it will appear in the result. but others can be used via
- `LEFT OUTER JOIN` every tuple in the left table must appear in the result; if tuples don't match btw left -> right, attributes of right part gets filled with NULL.
- `RIGHT OUTER JOIN` every tuple in the right table must appear in the result; if tuples don't match btw right -> left, attributes of left part gets filled with NULL.
- `FULL OUTER JOIN` 

`NATURAL LEFT OUTER JOIN` can be used when join attributes have same name.
`CROSS JOIN` can be used to specify the CARTESIAN PRODUCT operation.
Nested join is also doable. Where joining table is a joined table itself.

```sql
SELECT Pnumber, Dnum, Lname, Address, Bdate 
FROM (( PROJECT JOIN DEPARTMENT ON Dnum = Dnumber ) JOIN 
	  EMPLOYEE ON Mgr_ssn = Ssn ) 
WHERE Plocation =‘Stafford’
```
> `ON` clause can be used to specify the join condition.

Note: In some SQL systems, a different syntax was used to specify outer joins by using the comparison operators `+=`, `=+`, and `+=+` for left, right, and full outer join, respectively.

>Link
	[[2.3.3 Aggregate Functions]]