
## Assertions & Triggers

### Assertion
- Assertions: `CREATE ASSERTION` is used to specify additional types of constraints.


```sql
CREATE ASSERTION SALARY_CONSTRAINT --Each assertion is given a constraint name. 
CHECK ( NOT EXISTS ( 
	SELECT * 
	FROM EMPLOYEE E, EMPLOYEE M, DEPARTMENT D 
	WHERE E.Salary > M.Salary AND E.Dno = D.Dnumber AND D.Mgr_ssn = M.Ssn 
) );
--The following assertion checks if the salary of an employee is not greater than that of the manager of the department that the employee works in.
```

`CHECK`  must hold true for the assertion to be satisfied. 
Conditions can use a where clause along with `EXISTS` and `NOT EXISTS`.
Violation occurs when there is a tuple that violates the assertion statement to turn False.


### Triggers

- Trigger: `CREATE TRIGGER` is used to specify automatic actions that Database system will perform when certain events occur. 

```sql
CREATE TRIGGER SALARY_VIOLATION
BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE OF SALARY , SUPERVISOR_SSN
ON EMPLOYEE FOR EACH ROW
WHEN ( NEW.SALARY > ( SELECT SALARY FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE SSN = NEW.SUPERVISOR_SSN ) )
INFORM_SUPERVISOR (NEW.Supervisor_ssn, NEW.Ssn);

-- Checks if an employee's salary exceeds their supervisor's salary before inserting or updating the employee's salary in the database. If a violation occurs, it will trigger an action to inform the supervisor about the violation
```

#### Components of Trigger
- Event: DB updates. Here it's the insertion or change in the salary of employee or change of supervisor. 
- Condition: The condition is in the WHEN clause
- Action: Can be sequence of SQL statements or an external program's action. Here it utilizes a stored procedure INFORM_SUPERVISOR. 



## Views

It's a virtual table derived from other tables(base tables or previous views).
Simplifies complex queries that are to be run to get certain data by creating a table that can be viewed often.
View is defined from tuples in existing tables. Regular queries can be executed on views.

```sql
-- EX:1
CREATE VIEW WORKS_ON1 AS SELECT Fname, Lname, Pname, Hours FROM EMPLOYEE, PROJECT, WORKS_ON WHERE Ssn = Essn AND Pno = Pnumber;

-- EX:2
CREATE VIEW DEPT_INFO(Dept_name,No_of_emps, Total_sal )
AS SELECT Dname , COUNT ( * ), SUM ( Salary )
FROM DEPARTMENT , EMPLOYEE
WHERE Dnumber = Dno GROUP BY Dname ;
```

In Ex:1 The views inherit the attribute names from the defining table i.e. EMPLOYEE, PROJECT and WORKS_ON.

In Ex:2 Here attribute names are given anew. 1-1 correspondence btw the select clause ones and the newly defined ones.


Retrieval is similar to regular tables.
```sql
-- Select names of employees who work for productX 
SELECT Fname, Lname
FROM WORKS_ON1
WHERE Pname =‘ProductX’;
```
Here we prevented a join condition and utilized an existing view.

Don't want a view anymore? Use `DROP VIEW WORKS_ON1;`


### View Implementation, View Updates and Inline Views

Strategies to implement views:
- Query Modification: DBMS modifies the query targeted towards the view such that it goes and gets the data directly from the base tables. 
- View Materialization: DBMS creates a temporary table(Materialized view table) that stores the view result every time the view gets queried. This tends to efficient. Strategy is need to keep track of the base tables. 

#### Updates

An update on a view defined on a **single table** without any aggregate functions can be mapped to an update on the underlying base table under certain conditions

But,

Views defined on multiple tables using joins or involving grouping and aggregate functions are generally not easily updatable.
- Update operations may have multiple mappings to update base tables.
- Ambiguity will arise. Like wether to change the name of the variable(project_x to project_y) in the project relation or to change to project_y in the works on relation.


**Feasibility and choosing the most likely update**:
- A view update is feasible when only one possible update on the base tables achieves the desired effect on the view.
- A procedure is needed to select the most likely update among the possible mappings.
- Example: Choosing the appropriate update to maintain consistency and avoid unintended side effects.

>Link
	[[2.6 Schema Change Statements]]