## Drop command

- It is used to remove elements like tables, constraints and domains. 

`DROP SCHEMA` Can be used to drop the entire schema.
- 2 behavior are present:
	- CASCADE: Which will remove the schema and all its elements
	- RESTRICT: Which will remove the schema only if there are no elements.

`DROP TABLE` Can bee used to delete a specific table and its definition.
- 2 behavior are present:
	- CASCADE: Drops the table along with constraints, views and anything referencing it.
	- RESTRICT: Only drops table if it is not referenced.

Examples:
```sql
DROP SCHEMA COMPANY CASCADE
DROP TABLE DEPENDENT CASCADE
```


## Alter Command

- The ALTER command is used to modify the definition of base tables or other named schema elements.
- For tables, possible actions include adding or dropping a column, changing column definitions, and adding or dropping table constraints.
- To add a column, the ALTER TABLE command is used with the ADD COLUMN clause.
- To drop a column, CASCADE or RESTRICT options can be chosen for drop behavior.
- The command can also alter column definitions by dropping or defining default clauses.
- Constraints on a table can be changed by dropping named constraints and adding new ones using the ALTER TABLE command.

```sql
-- The schema is COMPANY

ALTER TABLE COMPANY.EMPLOYEE ADD COLUMN Job VARCHAR ( 12 );
ALTER TABLE COMPANY.EMPLOYEE DROP COLUMN Address CASCADE ;
ALTER TABLE COMPANY.DEPARTMENT ALTER COLUMN Mgr_ssn DROP DEFAULT ; -- removes the default value constraint
ALTER TABLE COMPANY.DEPARTMENT ALTER COLUMN Mgr_ssn SET DEFAULT ‘333445555’; --sets default value constraint.
```


## Stored Procedures

- Stored procedures are programs executed through a single SQL statement within the database server's process space.
- They can return results or perform application logic directly at the server, reducing data transfer between server and client.
- Stored procedures promote code reusability and eliminate the need for application programmers to know the database schema.
- Parameters can be used in stored procedures with three modes: IN, OUT, and INOUT.
- Stored procedures can be written in SQL or any host language.
- Calling a stored procedure in interactive SQL is done using the CALL statement.
- In Embedded SQL, stored procedures are typically called with variables in the host language.

```sql
--Simple procedure creation
CREATE PROCEDURE ShowNumberOfOrders 
SELECT C.cid, C.cname, COUNT(*) 
FROM Customers C, Orders O
WHERE C.cid = O.cid 
GROUP BY C.cid, C.cname;

--Creating an procedure with arguments
CREATE PROCEDURE AddInventory ( 
IN book_isbn CHAR(10), 
IN addedQty INTEGER) 
UPDATE Books 
SET qty_in_stock = qty_in_stock + addedQty 
WHERE book_isbn = isbn;

--Calling in Embedded SQL
CALL AddInventory(arg1, arg2);
```