It involves methods to fill missing data. There are 6 methods to yeet missing values. 

## Deletion
Simplest method. This yeets the data straight up. The biggest draw back of this method is that it causes **significant data loss**.

```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv("data.csv")
df = df.dropna() #removes all rows with missing values 
```
ex: Dataset contains 1000 entries(rows), 100 different observations are missing. This method deletes 100 Rows. 

## Mean/Median Imputation
Here we simply replace the missing values with the mean or median of the entire column.
>The word imputation means filling of missing values with some predicted values.

```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv("data.csv")
df.fillna(df.mean(),inplace = True)
df.fillna(df.median(),inplace = True)
```
ex: If values in a column say salary is missing. The mean/median of the column is calculated and filled in the missing places.

## Regression Imputation
Here we fill missing values with predicted values from a regression model. 

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression

df = pd.read_csv("Data.csv")
x = df.drop("Target",axis=1) #axis = 1 means columns
y = df['Target']

x_train, x_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(x,y, test_size = 0.2)
reg = LinearRegression().fit(x_train, y_train)

y_pred = reg.predict(x_test)

df['target'].fillna(y_pred, inplace = True)
```
ex: Say variables `height` and `weight` exist. Some values are missing in height. We use a model that predicts height based on weight. The predicted values can be filled in the missing places.

## Interpolation
Used to fill missing values by estimations off nearby values. Ex: Interpolation helps us estimate those missing values by looking at the temperatures of the observations that are close by. 
```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv("data.csv")
df.interpolate(method='linear', inplace=True) #replace using linear method
df.interolate(method='polynomial',order=2,inplace=True) #replace using poly
```
**Linear Interpolation**: Draws a straight line between known values on either side of missing values and estimates missing value based on where it falls on that line.

**Polynomial Interpolation**: Uses a curve to estimate missing values. Used when relationship is more complex. 

## Multiple Imputation
By creating multiple estimates and combining them we fill the missing values 
```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import sklearn.inputs import KNNImputer

df = pd.read_csv("data.csv")
imputer = KNNImputer(n_neighbors = 5)
df_imputed = imputer.fit_transform(df)

df=pd.DataFrame(df_imputed, columns = df.columns)
```
ex: Say column in our dataset called `income` has some missing values. To find them we use multiple imputation, which takes different guesses based on information like, age, education, community service etc. Combines the guesses and gives the value for the missing data.