Combines multiple models to create a better predictive model.
Especially if models in the ensemble are diverse and complementary to each other.

Steps:
1) Choose Type of Ensemble method:
	1) Bagging: 
		Make multiple independent models on random subsets of the training data and aggregate their predictions. 
		
	2) Boosting:
		Make models sequentially on training data, where the adjacent model focuses on misclassified  samples of the previous model.
		
	3) Stacking:
		Make multiple  models independently on the training data and use their predictions as input to a higher level model.

2) Select base model for ensemble. Ex: Decision Tree etc.
3) Tune hyperparameters. Use GSC, RSC to search over best hyperparameters. Ex: set max_depth etc. Use cross validation to evaluate the performance.
4) Train the base model on full training data using those hyperparameters.
5) Use trained base model to build the ensemble. For bagging, train multiple instances of base model on random subsets of training data and sum their predictions.
6) Tune hyperparameters for Ensemble. Use GSC, RSC to search over best hyperparameters. Use cross validation to evaluate the performance.
7) After getting the best hyperparameters, use them to train the final ensemble on full training data. Eval the performance on test dataset and estimate it's general performance.

```python
from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV, cross_val_score
from sklearn.datasets import make_classification 

x,y = make_classification(n_samples = 1000, n_features = 10, n_informative = 5, random_state = 42)

param_grid = 
{
	'n_estimators':[100,200,300]
	'max_depth': [5, 10, None], 
	'max_features': ['sqrt', 'log2', 0.5], 
	'min_samples_split': [2, 5, 10], 
	'min_samples_leaf': [1, 2, 4]
}

rf = RandomForestClassifier(random_state=42)

grid_search = GridSearchCV(estimator = rf, parame_grid, cv = 5, scoring='accuracy')
grid_search.fit(x,y)

print(f'Best Hyperparameters:{grid_search.best_params_}')
print(f'Best Score:{grid_search.best_score_}')
```
