Here are methods to handle deadlock.

## Deadlock Ignorance

Just act like nothing happened and everything is fine. Widely used this day.


## Deadlock Prevention

Prevent a deadlock before it occurs. i.e. by preventing the 4 Necessary conditions for deadlocks. 


### Mutual Exclusion
Having sharable resources reduces the chance of deadlocks as many threads can access them at once. Ex: Read only files. But not all resources can be made sharable. Ex: Mutex lock. 

### No Preemption
If one of the conditions of deadlock was No preemptions, then its opposite will be for handling it. If we allow a process to preempt, via a time quantum q, resources will be much more available. 
We can also check if resource requested by a thread is available, if it is not available then see which thread is holding it, if that thread is on wait mode then preempt it and provide the resource to the initial thread. 

### Hold and Wait
Make it no hold and wait. It says give all requested resources to the thread, so it doesn't hold any other resources. It is an impractical solution.
Another way is to force thread to release held resources if it wants any other. 
Both the methods have disadvantages of lower utilization of resources and starvation of thread.

### Circular Wait
Get rid of circular wait. 
Order the resources in an hierarchy and ensure that if a process is using a request of a certain rank, it cannot request for resources of rank lower than the rank of the resource that it is using. 

Like if there are resources like register>CPU>scanner>printer. If a resource is using CPU it cannot request for scanner/printer. 


>Links
	[[2.1.2 Deadlock Avoidance]]