It imposes limits on how requests can be made. Ensures at least one necessary condition of deadlock fails to occur. Can cause lower device util. 

Additional information is collected on how resources are to be utilized by the process. System then decides optimum routes to manage threads to avoid deadlocks.  

A safe state is when system can allocate resources in such a way that no deadlock occurs. 
- Safe sequence exists for the current allocation state if each thread's remaining resource requests can be satisfied by currently available resource held by other threads.
- If no safe sequence exists then deadlock **MAY** occur. 
- All deadlocked state are unsafe state. 


## Resource Allocation Graph Algorithm
Suppose that thread Ti requests a resource Rj
The request can be granted only if converting the request edge to an assignment edge does not result in the formation of a cycle in the resource allocation graph


## Banker's Algorithm
It's a deadlock avoidance algorithm for resource allocation systems with multiple instance of each resource types. It ensures resources are allocated in a way that maintains a safe state and avoids deadlocks. 

Each new thread declares it's maximum resource usage. The system uses data structures like :
- Max: Max resources demanded by each thread.
- Available: Number of resources available of each type. 
- Need: Remaining resources needed by each thread.
- Allocation: Specifies currently held resources by each thread.
to keep track.

It creates tables where rows are vectors that specify allocated and needed resources for each thread.  


**Safety Algorithm:**

1. Check if it's possible for each thread to finish its task by satisfying its resource needs.
2. Repeat the following steps until all threads are marked as finished:
    - Find a thread that is not marked as finished and its resource needs can be met with the available resources.
    - Allocate the resources to that thread and mark it as finished.
3. If all threads are marked as finished, the system is in a safe state.

**Resource-Request Algorithm:**

1. Check if the requested resources are within the maximum limits of the thread and the available resources.
2. If the requested resources can be granted without causing a deadlock, temporarily allocate them.
3. Check if the system is still in a safe state after the allocation.
    - If yes, grant the requested resources.
    - If no, rollback the allocation and deny the request.


### Illustrative Example: (Problem, refer to written notes) (Check slides for other types)

Total Resources: A=10, B=5, C=7

|Process|Allocation|Max Need||<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Available</mark>|<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">Remaining Needed(Calc)</mark>|
|--|--|--|---|--|--|
|P1|0,1,0|7,5,3||3,3,2||
|P2|2,0,0|3,2,2||5,3,2||
|P3|3,0,2|9,0,2||7,4,3||
|P4|2,1,1|4,2,2||7,4,5||
|P5|0,0,2|5,3,3||7,5,5||

Oder will come P2, P4, P5, P1, P3


>Link
	[[2.1.3 Deadlock Detection and Recovery]]