Swapping is the process of moving a process or portion of process from memory to backing store temporarily. 

Swapping allows the total physical address space of all processes to exceed the real physician memory of the system. 

It allows to boost multiprogramming in a system by allowing more processes to be active in a system. 

It does so by moving processes that are not so active to free up memory. If that process has to execute again then it is brought back to memory. 
That said, swapping can be time consuming and has to be done in a decisive manner.


## Standard Swapping

Moving of the entire process between main memory and the backing store(fast section of secondary memory).
Data structures, per thread data are all swapped. 

This allows for oversubscription of physical memory allowing more processes to run. Long time inactive processes are good candidate for swapping. Whenever such process have to be re-run they are simply brought back. (by swapping some other process in case memory is insufficient.)


## Swapping with Paging

Here a page gets swapped instead of the entire process. 
Pages are moved between memory and backing store. Reduces the cost of swapping while allowing oversubscription.

Page out operation moves a page from memory to the backing store, and page in operation brings a page back into memory. 

Used in Linux and Windows in conjunction with virtual memory.


## Swapping in Mobile 

Do not support swapping directly due to the limitations of Flash memory(Limited write endurance).  
Instead they utilize other strategies.  
iOS asks applications to voluntarily relinquish allocated memory and removes read-only data from memory.
Android may terminate a process if insufficient free memory is available but writes its application state to flash memory before termination.
Developers for mobile systems must carefully manage memory to avoid excessive memory usage or memory leaks.

>Links
	[[2.3 Virtual Memory]]